um Marwan bashara he's Al's senior
political analyst he's joining us by
Skype from Paris to talk about this uh
Marwan Linda Thomas Greenfield uh going
through the statements that we've heard
before from uh the us about the concern
that they have for the number of
casualties particularly in Gaza and she
did say that Israel has a right to
respond to threats but how it does it
matters
nevertheless it seems as though she was
again reiterating the US line that any
fault any delay when it comes to
negotiations it lies with Hamas rather
than with the Israeli government and and
it seems to be an encouragement to try
to get Hamas to the negotiations but of
course that may prove
difficult well I tell you I I actually
Envy you for the capacity to repeat all
of that uh when we all know it's Ground
Hog Day every time the UN Security
Council convenes and the Americans
repeat more of the same the same thing
for the English the same thing for the
algerians they all seem to be you know
um basically political commentators
rather than diplomats representing
states with the exception perhaps of the
Americans and the American ambassador
basically read the same sound bites the
same lines she did in previous speeches
with one difference I'm not sure you've
noticed perhaps our viewers around the
world did the United States is not just
concerned now the United States is
deeply concerned that's the difference
deeply concerned I'm sure the people in
Gaza the children of Gaza are going to
sleep better tonight because the United
States is deeply concerned while of
course repeating more of the same
mantras it's very orwellian for the
United States to continue to talk about
defense and stability and peace and
ceasefire and so on so forth while it's
edging on financing our ing Israel and
here I'm repeating myself shielding
Israel at the United Nations supplying
it with all the arms it needs to carry
is genocide and to carry violations of
international law against Lebanon and
Iran and to defend it when those
countries would want to retaliate this
is basically as I said Groundhog Day
every day the past 24 times as uh as
Gabrielle told us earlier since October
7 the Algerian representative Amar
benjar when he was speaking and as I
mentioned it was Algeria who called this
emergency meeting I was talking at one
point about the the attacks that have
been going on in the West Bank but also
particularly in Gaza he made the point
that the attacks would not be possible
without the generous support that Israel
gets now I'm paraphrasing what he was
saying but that was essentially what he
was meaning and as I was discussing with
Gabriel alzando a correspondent almost
at this exact moment the not
notification started to come out on the
wires that the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin has just approved $20
billion worth of a of US military
equipment to be delivered to Israel and
this is really where we see as you were
just talking about the the heart the
split if you like in uh the situation
that we find ourselves because on the
one hand the US is saying that it's
concerned about the number of casualties
is that Israel has to the right to
respond but how it does it matters but
at the same time of course it does not
stop the flow of military aid to
Israel it's truly unprecedented audacity
in international relations when it comes
to the United States
justifying um Israel's
crimes and supporting Israel's crimes
and arming and financing Israel as it
carries its crimes all the while talking
about peace stability ceasefire and the
concern over it the Deep concern for
casualties in GM it's an
unprecedented uh audacity it's it's
orellan in every possible way but what
what is happening in the meanwhile I
mean I'm not here none of us is trying
to be clever about this in the end of
the day you can't really clever out uh
death right and destruction and genocide
I should say because what is happening
is through through these 24 type
meetings at the UN Security Council and
through the very support that you just
spoke about from Anthony blinkin on the
likes America send its diplomates to the
region now I think three or four of them
are going to show up mcer what's his
name uh
Anthony blinkin and uh and the CI
director Bill Burns and perhaps the UN
the US National Security advisor they
will all be in the Middle East all the
while it's sending armadas strike forces
the most powerful armadas in the world
the biggest aircraft carriers the United
States has the Lincoln right so it send
the diplomats but it also s the armadas
it talks about diplomacy but it's really
more or less like gunboard diplomacy
right it's just sends in the armadas and
threatens everyone around as if the
Middle East is its background back
backyard the Middle East is two oceans
away from the United States but it
behaves like it's the Gulf of Mexico it
is not the Gulf of Mexico the Middle
East is the Middle East American or
North American is two oceans away but
anyway be as a May and this is my
real you know my Essential Point here
the United States is allowing Israel to
get
away with
genocide by arming it financing it and
shielding it at the United Nations the
United States is enabling Israel's
genocide and allowing Israel to get away
with genocide not only that now it's
allowing both the Israeli government and
and his prime minister
Natan to get away with their war crimes
by shielding it by shielding them from
the ICC and the icj and the likes and
even giving them all kinds of guarantees
so that if they do reach a ceasefire
their government will not implode
because secretly the United States is
guaranteeing that Israel can go back to
the war after phase one of phase three
of three phases of the ceasefire
according to two uh Israeli media
reports so really all in all it is
tragic that we sit here and we try to
analyze just to find any light in the
end of the tunnel and we find the word
deeply concerned instead of just concern
while the United States once again is
enabling genocide in Palestine Mar we're
waiting to hear from the Russian
representative to to the UN Security
Council so we just want to keep uh
asking you some questions until we get
to that that point forgive me if I have
to to break away if if you're giving me
an answer but I want to widen this out a
little bit and just talk about the
negotiations themselves two things are
absolutely evident um Hamas now has a
leader y sunar who is in Gaza is when he
was alive was the political head of
Hamas and he traveled the world as part
of these talks in order to be part of
the the negotiations Sim is in Gaza he
is very unlikely to leave Gaza that's
going to slow any process down now
Linda Thomas Greenfield saying no Hamas
has to be at the table in these talks
they have to be represented Q says there
will be some sort of representation what
kind of impact do you think this is
going to have on the effectiveness of
whatever talks we're going to see on
Thursday uh I'm actually pretty sure
analytically and from the various
sources and and reports that I've seen
that nothing changes with senir being in
Gaza and being assassinated and terms of
the logistics and in terms of who makes
a decision and how Collective is a
decision and how it's consensual and
institutional within Hamas and why Hamas
is in fact a very disciplined group
regardless of who's on the head and
regardless the geography of where is the
person who hates it and I think they
already said that uh that that issue is
not going to be a problem and they
already made some proposal towards how
they see this thing needs to move
forward in order to end as quickly as
possible now having said that let me
remind our viewers around the world and
let me tell you about the New York Times
report today it's a exclusive report in
the New York Times and I bet you
anything you want that the American
ambassador read it just like the English
Ambassador and the other ambassadors
they read it because it's a very
important report in the New York Times
that basically says that they got the
documents from the various
ceasefire uh negotiations from the
various uh round tables you know what
went on and so on so forth what were the
documents and the New York Times
concluded that it was Netanyahu
Netanyahu
Netanyahu that
obstructed the progress towards 65 that
each and every time he either underlined
expanded his conditions or added new
conditions for why at least since May
when the UN Security Council adopted
that extion 2735 for the for the
ceasefire Israel has been obstructing
its own or its American version of its
own ceasefire proposal because nanahu
does not want a ceasefire he he didn't
want a ceasefire I'm not sure if he's
going to be pushed into corner now with
Biden basically saying look if you're
going to continue to obstruct as the New
York Times
reports we're going to have to call you
out on it this time because Biden
basically is not running for reelection
and there's a good chance according to
at least a number of reports that Biden
might call him out on it this time
around that he just will not make leave
it vague he will not blame Hamas for it
he like
Galant the Israeli defense minister will
call out Natan for being the
obstructionist in why the parties why
the mediators are not able to reach a
ceas fire I want to ask you about the
other side of this which is or the other
um background to all of this which is of
course Iran's threat to
respond on behalf of the the
assassination of is in tan it's been
holding off and holding off there's been
a lot of speculation that that response
may well come within the next few days
as far as I can tell that speculation or
that public speculation seems to be
coming particularly from the United
States um in your assessment is there is
it is there anything in the in the
suggestion that Iran is holding off
doing
until it finds out what happens on
Thursday or perhaps in the succeeding
few days to to try to establish what
kind of response and what scale of
response if any at all it actually makes
depending on whether or not the talks go
ahead and if that is the case and I'm
jumping ahead a little bit here could
that be part of the leverage that the US
is perhaps using on Israel to say you
can have this deal we'll just give you
$20 billion worth of military equipment
as well and we can give you a guarantee
that Iran is going to either have a
limited response or no response at
all well uh the answer is yes and yes
probably yes and yes probably because
already we have one Iranian official
talking to to Western wire Services
Western media saying that only a
ceasefire deal could prevent an Iranian
response we don't have that from the
acting for minister or from the
president but there is some sort of
noise from Iran that if you do reach a
deal sooner than later this could be a
factor of why Iran would not retali at
least for the time being right I mean
they could also always say that they're
postponing not uh not you know not
stopping it all together not just
freezing it the other thing is that this
could be used as a leverage against
Israel by the United States or by on
itself says you know you you don't want
to be punished for your assassination of
Han and violation of our sovereignty you
going to have to work out the de now and
this is
important back to my original Point
whether there is or there isn't an
Iranian strike I am sorry to say that I
know this is important and I just answer
the question but either
way the Israel is getting away with
genocide because you just as you just
stated they will be rewarded and they
are already rewarded with billions tens
of billions of dollars and they're going
to be rewarded moving forward with
normalizations of relations with a good
number of powerful Arab countries
they're going to be rewarded for moving
the ethnic cleansing to Jewish Jerusalem
for Vi for violating and consecrating Al
aam Masque for annexing territories on
the West Bank for beginning to do in the
West Bank
a version of what they try to do in Gaza
so they're going to they're going to get
away with genocide in Gaza and because
they are doing it with such impunity
they're going to probably do it again
and again and again throughout Palestine
and perhaps in the region because why
not if you are an Israeli leader
listening to the people at the security
Council you would say they're stupid you
know I mean what are they saying if
you're an Israeli right I'm not saying
I'm not projecting here if you're an
Israeli Prim say these people are stupid
or they think people are stupid they
think Palestinians are stupid because
they're not doing anything they talk
like political commentators and they
talk from past past uh you know uh
speeches to the can you believe that
there still talk about two- State
solution and I'm talking about powerful
countries like Russia China even the
United States like when there's an
Israeli government that's committed to
know two states when they're committed
in every possible way and today they are
acting in every possible way to prevent
the establishment of Palestinian state
so while they talk about being committed
to a two-state solution they don't even
say well Israel actually reject that
while the Palestinian Authority is for
it or even Hamas is forign right so here
we have a situation whereby Israel is
getting away with murder it's getting
away with mass murder the Json right and
it's that's being allowed because of the
impotence of the International Community
the weakness of the Arab world the
cynicism of Western Powers not over the
United States by continue to sell us
words while in reality supporting Israel
in its genocidal war against the
Palestinians from what you've been
saying it sounds as though that uh
Benjamin Netanyahu is probably as
isolated as he has ever been in his uh
Prime ministership of uh of Israel um
his foreign um supporters are now
appearing to if nothing else identify
him as the problem um do you think that
in the event that there is no solution
that is reached as a result of ceasefire
negotiations that start on Thursday or
at any other time that the the end of
netanyahu's tenure in Israel may end up
coming about because of internal
pressures that that eventually the the
people of Israel and his fellow
politician
will have to draw a line and say enough
is enough you are responsible for this
and you have to
go I actually see uh especially since
Natan was invited to speak to both
houses of Congress for the fourth time
historic he's the only leader in history
to speak to both houses of US Congress
four times to once again meet with
President Biden and once again being met
with claps what 53 54 55 five times by
American senators and Congressman being
you know sealed with
embraced at the White House that
Netanyahu feels
Invincible that Netanyahu now will
probably I would think will
fire his defense minister who is a
member of his own party leud by the way
and bring someone else from prop one of
the smaller factions on the on the on
the on the radical right
replace him and even expand his
Coalition from 64 to potentially 68 or
7 make sure to subscribe our channel to
get the latest news from aler